This repository contains the code used for Figures 5, S6 and 6 (i.e. scRNA-seq and MERFISH analyses) in Favuzzi et al., 2021 "GABA-receptive microglia selectively sculpt developing inhibitory circuits".

# scRNA-seq
Code to rebuild Figure 5 and S6, scRNA-seq data have been deposited in NCBI GEO and assigned the following accession number GSE159947. They can also be downloaded from https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1UkL2Tc_CH7z54rG2W6tKcyYF04cJocJf?usp=sharing


# MERFISH
This repository contains scripts that were used in Figure 6 of the paper.

These scripts run on the output mosaics generated by Merlin. At this point, the data should be in a repository of the following structure. Stiched mosaics for smFISH and MERFISH data should be saved in the matching folders.
- Control1
  - Slice1
    - Analysis
    - SmFISH_mosaics
    - Merfish_mosaics
  - Slice2
    - Analysis...


First run groupdsmFISH.m to sum smfish images, run maskFOV to create a mask and only run the analysis on your region of interest.
Then run Main_analysis.m to generate count and intensity matrix for respectively MERFISH encoded genes and smFISH.
To count the smFISH transcripts for 4 genes as done in the paper, run countsmFISHHIGH.m
To recount Gabbr1 and Gabbr2 in only the Z that are part of the microglia, run recountwithZ.m
Then run the R script for downstream analysis (MERFISH_downstream.R)
After running clustering, edit ExtractCells2plot.m to choose which cluster to generate maps for, then run makecontrolmaps.m to generate maps of all microglia in this cluster for all control slices
